# **\[experimental\]** Calculate match/replace df based on scaling

Uses a match/replace-style table like in
[`modify_table()`](https://framverse.github.io/framrsquared/reference/modify_table.md),
but allows user to specify scaling factors for individual columns rather
than absolute values, and returns the corresponding match/replace df to
be used in
[`modify_table()`](https://framverse.github.io/framrsquared/reference/modify_table.md).
This is intended to support sensitivity analyses structured as "carry
out 100 runs, with stock recruit scalers for stock X running from 5% to
500% of the current value" (`calc_fram_scaling()` is only one part of
the pipeline for this). See
[`modify_table()`](https://framverse.github.io/framrsquared/reference/modify_table.md)
for details of setting up a match/replace dataframe; the only difference
here is that the columns to be scaled should start with "scale\_"
instead of "replace\_", and should contain the scalers.

## Usage

``` r
calc_fram_scaling(fram_db, table_name, df)
```

## Arguments

- fram_db:

  FRAM database

- table_name:

  name of FRAM table

- df:

  As the match/replace dataframe of `modify_table`, but with "scale\_"
  columns instead of "replace\_" columns. Columns must start with either
  "match\_" or "scale\_", and should otherwise match the names of
  columns in `table`. Columns starting with "scale\_" define the scaling
  factor to be applied to values in that column (for rows matched with
  the "match\_" columns). For example, scaling the StartCohort values to
  50% in the Cohort table might be achieved with columns "match_RunID",
  "match_StockID", "match_age", "match_TimeStep", "scale_StartCohort",
  with values of 0.5 in scale_Startcohort.

## Value

A match/replace df for use in
[`modify_table()`](https://framverse.github.io/framrsquared/reference/modify_table.md),
with "replace\_" values generated by scaling the corresponding values in
the FRAM database. Includes additional "match\_" columns for all columns
except "PrimaryKey"

## Details

Note: In the StockRecruit table, RecruitScaleFactor and
RecruitCohortSize should have a fixed relationship (scale factor =
cohort size / base period size). For this reason, if applying scaling to
only one of those columns, `calc_fram_scaling` will automatically apply
the same scaling to the other. If the scaling for both is provided and
they do not match, `calc_fram_scaling` will error out.

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
## in run 31, decrease stock 1's recruit numbers by 50% and double 2's recruit numbers
library(here)
fram_db <- connect_fram_db(here("example_fram_db.mdb"))

df <- data.frame(match_RunID = c(31, 31), match_StockID = 1:2, scale_RecruitScaleFactor = c(.5, 2))

df_scaled <- calc_fram_scaling(fram_db, "StockRecruit", df)
## here's what the values become:
df_scaled

## we can then modify the database
modified <- modify_table(fram_db, "StockRecruit", df_scaled)

disconnect_fram_db(fram_db)
} # }
```
